---
title: "Essen 2006 -- Part 3"
date: 2006-10-27T12:18:00-04:00
type: post
permalink: /blog/2006/10/27/essen-2006-part-3/
---
Here's what I brought back...

<span style="font-weight: bold;">Played first:</span>  
<span class="postbody">Yspahan<br />Die Baumeister von Arkadia<br /></span> <span class="postbody">Il Principe<br /></span> <span class="postbody">24/7<br /></span> <span class="postbody">Arche Opti Mix + expansion</span>  
 <span class="postbody">Wayfinder<br /></span>  
<span style="font-weight: bold;">Not played first:</span>  
<span class="postbody">Hermagor --- Another by the designer of Oltre Mare. Purchased after explanation by designer.<br />Through the Ages --- Czech Board Games. A lot of buzz. Looks to be good.<br />Graenaland --- Another by CBG. Faintly Settlers like.<br />Null & Nichtig --- Played back in the States. Unusual trick taking game. I like it!<br />Relikt --- Retheme of earlier Rudiger Dorn game. Boys and I played this week. They liked it. Plays quickly.<br />TtR 1910 --- Primarily purchased for the larger cards but glad to have another Ticket to Ride variant<br />Havoc -- Card Expansion --- Only had the BGG.con expansion. This has all the extras.<br />Blue Moon City expansion (spielbox) --- Adds 2 additional buildings to the game. There is another expansion coming in the December issue of Spielbox (9.50 euro to the US).<br />Thurn & Taxis expansion (spielbox) --- Adds a way to perform more than one special action per turn.<br />Power Grid -- Benelux/Central Europe expansion --- New boards.</p> 

<p>
  To consider down the road...<br />Leonardo da Vinci --- played at Essen and liked. Some are complaining about the basic setup. Will watch the 'geek to see how this develops. Still seems to be a good game.<br />Perikles --- Possible purchase once it makes its way to the US<br />Pillars of the Earth (Saulen der Erde) --- Supposed to be released in the US next year.
</p>

<p>
  </span>
</p>