---
title: "2016 Reads"
date: 2017-01-01T22:15:49-04:00
excerpt: "Reflections on some of the books I read during 2016."
type: post
permalink: /blog/2017/01/01/2016-reads/
---

I finished just over 30 titles in the last year. Looking at the ratings I gave on Goodreads, a little over half were 4 stars while the rest were 2 or 3 stars and no 5 stars this year. I am either a grumpy old man now or am picking the wrong books to read considering I gave several 5 star ratings in 2015 and 2014. This is everything I read in the last 12 months:

  * Cotton Malone -- Steve Berry 
      * The Templar Legacy
  * I Am Legend -- Richard Matheson
  * Hello, Startup -- Yevgeniy Brikman
  * Mistborn: Wax and Wayne -- Brandon Sanderson 
      * The Alloy of Law
      * Shadows of Self
      * The Bands of Mourning
  * Mitch Rapp -- Vince Flynn 
      * Act of Treason
      * Protect and Defend
  * His Dark Materials -- Philip Pullman 
      * The Golden Compass
  * Amos Decker -- David Baldacci 
      * Memory Man
      * The Last Mile
  * John Puller -- David Baldacci 
      * The Forgotten
      * The Escape
      * No Man's Land
  * Revival -- Stephen King
  * Redshirts -- John Scalzi
  * Call for the Dead -- John le Carre
  * Eon -- Greg Bear
  * Chronicle of the Unhewn Throne -- Brian Staveley 
      * The Emperor's Blades
      * The Providence of Fire
      * The Last Mortal Bond
  * Bill Hodges -- Stephen King 
      * Mr. Mercedes
      * Finders Keepers
      * End of Watch
  * NOS4A2 -- Joe Hill
  * Harry Bosch -- Michael Connelly 
      * Blue on Black
      * The Wrong Side of Goodbye
  * Jack Reacher -- Lee Child 
      * Night School
  * Culture -- Iain M. Banks 
      * Consider Phlebas
  * From a Buick 8 -- Stephen King
  * Rainbows End -- Vernor Vinge

I won't go into detail on everything I read but I will highlight a few titles.

## Mistborn: Wax and Wayne -- Brandon Sanderson

Without a doubt, Sanderson is a great writer. I like his unusual magic systems. They tend to be reasonably sound as far as magic systems go. The Wax and Wayne books are a fun jaunt back into the Mistborn world. I'm looking forward to the third Mistborn trilogy in the coming years. If you're a Mistborn fan, you will likely enjoy this. If you haven't read any Sanderson, pick up Elantris and the first Mistborn trilogy. Those are great stories. Jim's score: B.

## Chronicle of the Unhewn Throne -- Brian Staveley

This series started out great and I was really looking forward to reading each successive book but by the end of the trilogy, I just wanted it to be over. Upon reflection, I was hoping this would be a wonderful fantasy distraction until GRRM released the next Game of Thrones volume or Rothfuss gave us the final installment of the Kingkiller Chronicle. Alas, I continue to pine for awesome fantasy. Jim's score: C.

## Bill Hodges -- Stephen King

With the exception of the Dark Tower, King hasn't shown a penchant for writing a series of books. Between 2014 and 2016, he broke with that tradition and released a series of books known as the Bill Hodges trilogy. It is a bit more mainstream but still has many of the trappings of classic King horror about the books. I enjoyed the read and feel they are one of the better latter day King publications (along with 11-22-63). Jim's score: A-.